Update section on form_for compatibility (#1644)
ViewComponent/view_component: docs/known_issues.md

Note: For the same functionality as `turbo_frame_tag(my_model)`, use `tag.turbo_frame(id: dom_id(my_model))`.

> ## `form_for` compatibility

Reviewer: There are actually two form helpers affected, `form_for` and `form_with`. I think it makes sense to refer to them both together as "form helpers."

```suggestion
## Compatibility with Rails form helpers
```

ViewComponent [isn't compatible](https://github.com/viewcomponent/view_component/issues/241) with `form_for` helpers by default.

> This means that it isn't supported to pass a form object to a view component.

Reviewer 2: Actually it can work for some simple cases: you pass the form builder reference (usually `f`) to the component, as an argument, and use it in the component, ie. `f.text_field :name`. But for more complex cases (passing blocks to form helpers) you may have duplicate or wrongly ordered content.

Author: You are right, @Spone. I am uncertain if we need to mention this details here... My focus is more the "way forward" with the options one has...

Author: If there is demand, I can of course elaborate on this. @Spone and @ianterrell, what do you think?

Author: @ianterrell, thanks for giving some insights. What is your argument to not put the label, description and error component into a form builder? For example, viewcomponent-form gem would allow you to combine both worlds.

Reviewer 3: Do you mean this [view_component-form](https://github.com/pantographe/view_component-form) gem? For large projects I try to run as few dependencies as possible. We don't even use Devise. I wonder if we should be using ViewComponent 😅.

I don't have a strong argument not to put the label etc into a form builder, other than it just seemed natural to use view components directly, and we have some inertia in that direction — we use them almost everywhere else, after all. I didn't think about using form builders at first, and now we have a lot of forms built this way. 

I was surprised when in some cases ViewComponents didn't work. In fact, in some cases they did work and then stopped working, when the global buffer changes were being tried out. 

All that said... since they play so poorly together — or at least, poorly together _sometimes_ — we probably should transition to using our own form builder.

Reviewer 2: Overall, I think if we're trying to document how things currently are, we should aim at being as specific as possible, so that people can make an informed choice between the available options.

I would draw the line at describing specifics about external libraries, since I prefer people get their info first-hand from their docs (and we don't have to keep it updated on our side).

It won't render as expected. Some content will be rendered twice.

Consider following options:

- Render a form end-to-end within one view component
- Render a [classical view partial](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) within the view component, which includes the form

> - Use [FormBuilder](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/form_helpers.html#customizing-form-builders) to create reusable form components.

Reviewer: I'm not sure a form builder will help across components. The builder is actually a big part of the reason form helpers aren't compatible with view components, namely because they retain a reference to the view context in which they were called. I was trying to address that [here](https://github.com/ViewComponent/view_component/pull/1642). I suppose you could write your own form helper that does something similar, but there would be no way to know which view context is the "current" one without some additional help from the VC library itself (i.e. what I was trying to do with `@render_stack`).

Or maybe you mean a form builder in the generic sense, i.e. not Rails form builders?

Author: I also mean the rails FormBuilder. I know this is an issue.

When I did my research on this topic, I saw multiple repos, where people tried to use view components to style HTML form elements. E.g. to style a textarea field. However, in this case, FormBuilder can be considered a view component implementation of some sort. And maybe this is enough for them and their use case at this moment.

Reviewer: Ahh ok I understand. That's an interesting point.

  Note: There are multiple approaches how to implement a FormBuilder:
  - Classic approach (without ViewComponent)

>   - Using a lightweight implementation of ViewComponent (for example, [`ActsAsComponent`](https://github.com/primer/view_components/blob/main/lib/primer/forms/acts_as_component.rb) at [Primer ViewComponents](https://github.com/primer/view_components))

Reviewer: I'm not sure `ActsAsComponent` is something we want to mention in the official VC docs. I think of it as a private class that's only designed to be used internally. We could expose it as its own gem, but it lacks many standard VC features like slots.

Author: It is just an example. One could do something else. I for one like the last option for example...

We can revise this section, when there is a better solution. But think about someone from the developer/user side. He/she is looking for a solution. So it makes sense to mention all known options

Author: I tried to re-word it. Please see, if you like it.

Reviewer: Ok I'll take another look. I understand it's an example, I just don't want to support someone using it outside the context it was designed for 😅

Note: For the same functionality as `turbo_frame_tag(my_model)`, use `tag.turbo_frame(id: dom_id(my_model))`.

## Compatibility with Rails form helpers

ViewComponent [isn't compatible](https://github.com/viewcomponent/view_component/issues/241) with `form_for` helpers by default.

> Passing a form object reference (often `f`) to a ViewComponent works for simple cases, like `f.text_field :name`. Content may be ill-ordered or duplicated in complex cases, such as passing blocks to form helpers or when nesting components.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Passing a form object (often `f`) to a ViewComponent works for simple cases like `f.text_field :name`. Content may be ill-ordered or duplicated in complex cases, such as passing blocks to form helpers or when nesting components.
```

Some workarounds include:

- Render an entire form within a single ViewComponent.
- Render a [partial](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) within the ViewComponent which includes the form.
- Use a [custom `FormBuilder`](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/form_helpers.html#customizing-form-builders) to create reusable form components:

>   - Using FormBuilder the default way. This means to [use Action View helpers](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html) to create the desired output

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Using FormBuilder with [Action View helpers](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html).
```

>   - Using a FormBuilder that overrides all field helpers to render a ViewComponent, so that each field can be customized individually (for example, [view_component-form](https://github.com/pantographe/view_component-form))

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Using a FormBuilder overriding all field helpers to render a ViewComponent so each field can be customized individually (for example, [view_component-form](https://github.com/pantographe/view_component-form)).
```

>   - Using a lightweight implementation of ViewComponent. For example, [Primer ViewComponents](https://github.com/primer/view_components) implemented [`ActsAsComponent`](https://github.com/primer/view_components/blob/main/lib/primer/forms/acts_as_component.rb) which is used in the context of `FormBuilder`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  - Using a lightweight re-implementation of ViewComponent. For example, [Primer ViewComponents](https://github.com/primer/view_components) implemented [`ActsAsComponent`](https://github.com/primer/view_components/blob/main/lib/primer/forms/acts_as_component.rb) which is used in the context of `FormBuilder`.
```

Note: For the same functionality as `turbo_frame_tag(my_model)`, use `tag.turbo_frame(id: dom_id(my_model))`.

## Compatibility with Rails form helpers

ViewComponent [isn't compatible](https://github.com/viewcomponent/view_component/issues/241) with `form_for` helpers by default.

> Passing a form object reference (usually `f`) to a view component works for simple cases, like `f.text_field :name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Passing a form object reference (usually `f`) to a ViewComponent works for simple cases, like `f.text_field :name`.
```

> Passing a form object reference (usually `f`) to a ViewComponent works for simple cases, like `f.text_field :name`.
> Content will be ill-ordered or duplicated in complex cases (such as passing blocks to form helpers or when nesting components).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Passing a form object reference (often `f`) to a ViewComponent works for simple cases, like `f.text_field :name`. Content may be ill-ordered or duplicated in complex cases, such as passing blocks to form helpers or when nesting components.
```

> Content will be ill-ordered or duplicated in complex cases (such as passing blocks to form helpers or when nesting components).

Reviewer 3: This may be unhelpful, but — is this limited to form helpers? I feel like I remember seeing issues with other block capturing helpers, and `link_to` is similarly mentioned in one of the issues: https://github.com/ViewComponent/view_component/issues/241#issuecomment-905233222

Does that help clarify the difference between the "simple" and "complex" cases?

Reviewer 2: Turbo helpers as well.

Reviewer: Yes, the compatibility issues affect numerous Rails helpers. Another one that hasn't been mentioned yet is `content_for`, and I think `content_tag` too.

Author: Shall we mention the other affected helpers as well? Maybe within an additional section?

```markdown
## Other Rails helpers with compatibility issues

Similar to the form helpers (see above), the following helpers have compatibility issues:

- `content_for` --> Set directly within a Rails view
- `link_to`(?) --> ???
- `content_tag` --> Use xzy instead

To keep this PR small, I would like to do this in another PR

Reviewer: Yeah another PR sounds like a good idea.

For both `link_to` and `content_tag`, the best suggestion is probably to just write the HTML by hand 😢

> Consider following options:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Some workarounds include:
```

> - Render a form end-to-end within one view component

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Render a form end-to-end within one ViewComponent
```

> - Render a [classical view partial](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) within the view component, which includes the form

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Render a [classical view partial](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) within the ViewComponent, which includes the form
```

> - Use `[FormBuilder](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/form_helpers.html#customizing-form-builders)` to create reusable form components.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use a custom `[FormBuilder](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/form_helpers.html#customizing-form-builders)` to create reusable form components.
```

  Note: There are multiple approaches how to implement a FormBuilder:

>   - Classic approach (without ViewComponent)

Reviewer 2: Can you elaborate on what "classic approach" means? You mean not using ViewComponents at all to generate the form, right?

Author: in the sense of how to customize the form builder. I mean, whatever you find when you google for "custom form builder rails"

>   - Using ViewComponent (for example, [view_component-form gem](https://github.com/pantographe/view_component-form))

Reviewer 2: I may be contradicting [my own comment](https://github.com/ViewComponent/view_component/pull/1644#discussion_r1092464568) here, but I now think we need to describe the overall approach.

```suggestion
  - Using a FormBuilder that overrides all field helpers to render a ViewComponent, so that you can customize each field individually (for example, [view_component-form gem](https://github.com/pantographe/view_component-form))
```

> - Render a form end-to-end within one ViewComponent
> - Render a [classical view partial](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) within the ViewComponent, which includes the form
> - Use a [custom `FormBuilder`](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/form_helpers.html#customizing-form-builders) to create reusable form components.
>   Note: There are multiple approaches how to implement a FormBuilder:
>   - Without FormBuilder at all, where one would [use Action View helpers](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html) to create the desired output
>   - Using a FormBuilder that overrides all field helpers to render a ViewComponent, so that you can customize each field individually (for example, [view_component-form gem](https://github.com/pantographe/view_component-form))
>   - Using a lightweight implementation of ViewComponent. For example, [Primer ViewComponents](https://github.com/primer/view_components) implemented with [`ActsAsComponent`](https://github.com/primer/view_components/blob/main/lib/primer/forms/acts_as_component.rb) a lightweight version, which they use in the context of `FormBuilder`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Render an entire form within a single ViewComponent.
- Render a [partial](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) within the ViewComponent which includes the form.
- Use a [custom `FormBuilder`](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/form_helpers.html#customizing-form-builders) to create reusable form components:
  - Without FormBuilder at all, [use Action View helpers](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/FormBuilder.html) to create the desired output
  - Using a FormBuilder that overrides all field helpers to render a ViewComponent, so that each field can be customized individually (for example, [view_component-form](https://github.com/pantographe/view_component-form))
  - Using a lightweight implementation of ViewComponent. For example, [Primer ViewComponents](https://github.com/primer/view_components) implemented [`ActsAsComponent`](https://github.com/primer/view_components/blob/main/lib/primer/forms/acts_as_component.rb) which is used in the context of `FormBuilder`.
```

Reviewer 2: > Render a [partial](https://guides.rubyonrails.org/layouts_and_rendering.html#using-partials) which includes the form, within the ViewComponent.

What about reordering this? Because it's the partial that includes the form, not the ViewComponent.

Reviewer 2: > Without FormBuilder at all

It feels weird that this option is introduced as a sub-item of "Use a custom `FormBuilder`"

Author: > Without FormBuilder at all

This statement is just wrong. I need to fix it.
